in this lesson we're going to talk about
the functionality and usage of pricing
and total cost of ownership calculators
in the previous lessons i talked about
things that influence cost and things
you can do to reduce your cost
but a pricing calculator helps me
ascertain what my likely costs are going
to be now
garbage in this garbage out i need to
have a good idea of what resources i'm
going to use what my architecture looked
like
how many instances i'm going to be
running for what periods of time but if
i have that information i can feed that
into the calculator it will give me an
estimate of what my costs are and i
already showed the calculator in the
previous lesson if we jump over
the whole point of the pricing
calculator is i add the services that i
intend to use so i already added one
type of virtual machine
and what's important about this is
obviously there's a certain set of
attributes
which region am i creating it in
is it windows or linux
what type of instance that's obviously a
huge aspect
how many of them are running
and then you also get to things like
well notice it's not asking me for how
long they're running for because i'm
saying use reserved instance so that
means they're i'm going to get billed
100 of the time but if i turn that off i
could then say well maybe i don't have
10 running
24 hours a day for the entire month
and so i might tweak this based on the
actual number of hours maybe it's only
running for 500 hours so i have to feed
in the details of
not just what is being used but how much
is being used
now it's trying to help me with an os i
likely have discs so at minimum i'm
going to have an operating system disk
so i can tell it what type of os disk do
i want to have
and depending on the type of vm you'll
have different types of disks available
this is not an s variant so it can't use
the premium
if i was to change this
for example
to one of the s variant disks it doesn't
matter which one i pick i'll just pick
that one for simplicity
for my disks then you get things like
premium ssd are available so give it the
criteria of well what's the redundancy
how big is it
and then optionally
so i'll grab one of those
i might have more than one remember i
might have data disks as well and they
might be different sizes so i would go
ahead and then just add disks
as part of another cost element if i was
to search for example
um
i can do a storage account here
and go and look at my storage account
in my storage account
we have the idea here of
managed disks
so this is where i could go and add
additional disks
that i might be using so i'll say oh
i've got four of those disks and it's
asking me things like all transactions
because you pay for transactions as well
and what you would basically do is you
would go through and add in all of the
elements hey look is there bandwidth
internet egress you pay for that beyond
a certain amount you get some free
but then beyond that i start paying and
it varies based on the region
so it's asking me what region are you
creating this network egress in
because you're going to pay a certain
amount of money
so you would essentially make sure
you've got an architecture of your
solution
and then go in and add all of the
different elements you have into here to
get the cost
and once you've done that you can
actually go through
and there's tools where you can then
export this out
i could save it as a certain name
i could share it and make it available
to someone else
i could add various types of support
into here i could add different types of
licensing program so there's things that
i can then do
with this but the whole point here
is help me estimate the cost of the
azure resource
now the azure resource is one dimension
it's a big dimension but there are
others there's the whole operational
model of it and if i'm trying to move a
workload from on-premises to the cloud
often we have to show a total cost of
ownership people want to understand from
a business perspective
well what am i going to save by moving
to the cloud and if i think about
running things on premises well hey
there's physical structures there's
electricity bills there's calling
there's operational stuff and there's
still elements of things like the staff
involved in the cloud but the
responsibilities shift so if i try to
understand the change in total cost of
ownership there's a separate calculator
so now if we go and look at the total
cost of ownership calculator
this goes through a number of phases
this is going to let me define my
existing workflows in terms of servers
databases storage and networking
then i can tweak certain assumptions and
then view
what it thinks it's going to save me so
i can add certain on-premises workloads
and i can add multiple different
workloads so i'm saying hey these are
virtual machines
i'm running a certain os i've got i
don't know
10 of these i'm using vmware today
they have
i know we'll say eight cores and
16 gigabytes of memory
um i could add additional ones so i
could add multiple different types of
all the different vms and workloads i
have
i could add certain databases that i'm
running i could add certain types of
network attached storage that i have in
my environment i can add all the
different details there i can add the
amount of network bandwidth i'm using so
i add in all these various details
obviously i'm not putting in a lot of
detail here
but then i can go and tweak assumptions
so assumptions are things like what
licensing benefits i might be able to
bring
do i want grs some geo-redundant
resiliency
should i consider the use of b series
virtual machines which are burstable
what are my electricity costs currently
and then costs around well what i pay
for storage and labor costs and all
these other things
but ultimately once you've filled all
that in
it's going to give you an idea of what
it thinks you're on premises costs are
and then what your azure costs are
and then how much it's going to save you
over the next
in this case five years
you could tweak that time frame you
could tweak the region licensing
programs etc
so the whole point of that total cost of
ownership calculator is to help me maybe
work out hey look this is the benefit
because it's going to cost you money to
move to the cloud
it's not always happened
so you're going to spend some money to
move to the cloud to retool to educate
but then this is what i can save
by doing that move